DDD - Data Display Debugger - GNU Project - Free Software Foundation (FSF)GNU
Project - Software 


What is DDD?
GNU DDD is a graphical front-end for command-line debuggers such as GDB, DBX, 
WDB, Ladebug, JDB, XDB, the Perl debugger, the bash debugger, or the Python 
debugger. Besides ``usual'' front-end features such as viewing source texts, DDD 
has become famous through its interactive graphical data display, where data 
structures are displayed as graphs. 
     
For more information (and more screenshots), see the DDD Manual. 
Where do I get DDD source?
DDD can be found at /gnu/ddd/ on ftp.gnu.org. DDD can also be found at 
SourceForge. You can also download GNU DDD from any GNU FTP server near you or 
buy copies on CD-ROM from the FSF. The ddd/ directory contains the DDD source 
distribution: 
  ddd-version.tar.gz -- this package is the one you want. It includes 
    the complete DDD source code, 
    building instructions, as well as 
    the DDD manual in TeXinfo, Info, PostScript, and PDF formats. 
Here are further instructions on how to download and unpack GNU packages.
Where do I get DDD binaries?
The FSF does not distribute DDD binaries. You can ask for help if you need 
technical support. 
DDD binaries for GNU/Linux are typically available via your GNU/Linux 
distributor: 
  DDD packages for Debian GNU/Linux are found here. 
  DDD RPMs can be found in 
  http://rpmfind.net/linux/rpm2html/search.php?query=ddd. 
The written word provides binaries of freely available software for various 
platforms. Their FTP server contains DDD and XPM packages. 
What do I need to build DDD?
To build DDD from sources, you need 
  The DDD source distribution (see above). 
  The GNU compiler collection (GCC), version 3.0 or higher (or another ISO C++ 
  compiler). 
  The LessTif user interface toolkit, version 0.89 or higher (or another 
  Motif-compatible user interface toolkit). 
The simplest way to build DDD is: 
  Unpack the DDD source distribution 
  Change into the ddd-version subdirectory 
  Type ./configure; make 
To run DDD, you need the GNU debugger (GDB), version 4.16 or later (or another 
command-line debugger such as DBX, WDB, Ladebug, JDB, XDB, the Perl debugger, or 
the Python debugger). 
How do I get started with DDD?
The DDD Manual contains a detailed tutorial. 
Here are some free third-party tutorials on the Web: 
  There's an article on DDD in Dr. Dobb's Journal. 
  The book Programmierwerkzeuge has a detailed chapter on debugging with GDB and 
  DDD (in German; select "Kapitel 11"). 
  LinuxFocus has a DDD tutorial in English, Spanish, German, French, Korean, and 
  Turkish. 
  Linux-Magazin has another DDD tutorial (in German). 
Where do I get DDD alpha releases?
Recent (not necessarily tested) snapshots of GNU DDD can be found at 
http://sourceforge.net/projects/ddd/. 
The DDD CVS repository (containing all versions of DDD, including the very 
latest changes) is available via http://sourceforge.net/projects/ddd/. 
I have found a bug! How do I report it?
You can report bugs to bug-ddd at gnu.org. Before you do this, please check the 
following: 
  Please read the section ``Bugs and How to Report Them'' toward the end of the 
  DDD Manual. 
  Be sure to include a copy of your ~/.ddd/log file which tells your DDD 
  configuration as well as the interaction between DDD and the underlying 
  command-line debugger. 
The purpose of reporting a bug is to enable the bug to be fixed for the sake of 
the whole community of users. You may or may not receive a response; the 
maintainers will send one if that helps them find or verify a fix. Most GNU 
maintainers are volunteers and all are overworked; they don't have time to help 
individuals and still fix the bugs and make the improvements that everyone 
wants. If you want help for yourself in particular, you may have to hire someone 
for technical support. 
If you are willing to help fixing DDD bugs, you can subscribe to the bug-ddd 
mailing list or access its archives. 
I have a question regarding DDD. Where do I get assistance?
We have a general-purpose mailing list devoted to DDD. You can ask any questions 
to ddd at gnu.org. Patches and new releases are also announced here. 
Subscription info and mailing list archives are available. Owing to abuse by 
spammers, it is necessary to subscribe before posting to the list. 
If you need technical support on DDD, you can ask for technical support. 
Where can I learn more about debugging and debuggers?
Here's a couple of related resources: 
  GDB Home Page. Includes latest patches and development snapshots. 
  LessTif. The free Motif clone. 
  GVD. The GNU Visual Debugger. 
  HP Wildebeest (WDB). A port of GDB to PA-RISC/HP-UX, by HP. 
  Insight. A very nice GUI for GDB from Redhat, the GDB maintainers. 
  KDbg. A KDE-based GDB Interface with inspection of variable values in a tree 
  structure. 
  KDevelop. A KDE based development environment. 
  xxgdb. The oldest and simplest X interface for GDB and DBX. 
  tgdb. A Tcl/Tk GDB interface (similar to Turbo Debugger or CodeView). 
  ups. An alternative UNIX debugger with integrated C interpreter. 
  deet. A simple and extensible graphical debugger. 
  A list of available Perl debuggers. The ultimate Perl reference. 
  A GUI for the Perl Debugger. Written in Perl. 
  GNU Nana. Improved support for assertions and logging in C and C++. 
  SmartGDB. Scriptable, thread-aware extension of GDB. 
  Debugging Tools for Dynamic Storage Allocation and Memory Management. 
  GNU Checker. A tool to find memory errors at runtime 
  xwpe. A programming environment integrating a program editor with an external 
  debugger. 
  Algorithmic and Automatic Debugging. A survey on current debugging research. 
  High Performance Debugging Forum. An evolving set of standards for debugging 
  tools. 
Have fun with DDD! 
Andreas Zeller zeller at gnu.org 
Andrew Gaylard apg at users dot sf dot net 


Return to GNU's home page. 
Please send FSF & GNU inquiries & questions to gnu at gnu.org. There are also 
other ways to contact the FSF. 
Please send comments on these web pages to webmasters at www.gnu.org, send other 
questions to gnu at gnu.org. 
Copyright (C) 2000-2003 Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 
330, Boston, MA 02111, USA 
Verbatim copying and distribution of this entire article is permitted in any 
medium, provided this notice is preserved. 
Updated: $Date: 2005/10/22 15:41:39 $ $Author: apgaylard $ 

