In the CBC Radio Program "Who Owns Ideas", Paul Kennedy takes us through the history of copyright and examines the current copyright crisis including what can be done about it. The Internet has changed our day-to-day lives dramatically. Many people unthinkingly violate copyright several times each day. Copyright is no longer working in our society, so instead of forcing society to conform to copyright, we need to encourage copyright to conform to our new society.

Copyright was initially granted to authors in the 17th century by the Statute of Anne as a fourteen-year monopoly on publishing rights to encourage learning. 80 years later, it found its way into the Constitution of the United States as a temporary exclusive right, with the intention of promoting science and the useful arts. Kennedy suggests that the people writing the constitution saw monopolies as extremely dangerous, and viewed this temporary monopoly on works as a compromise to encourage innovation. Since then, copyright has only grown stricted, and has somehow metamorphosed into Intellectual Property along the way. Copyright is no longer viewed as a temporary monopoly on publishing; it is, for all intents an purposes, complete ownership of the work. Where copyright initially lasted for 14 years, it now extends 70 years past the death of the author -- hardly seems temporary.

Copyright is no longer about encouraging innovation. Its primary goal is now to make people incredible sums of money. The monopolies that the writers of the constitution were so worried about have come into full force and bent copyright to their will. The MPAA and RIAA, in particular, spend vast amounts of money lobbying the government for stricter copyright legislation. This has prevented copyright legislation from adapting to our new society as quickly as it should.

Up until the late 1990s, to violate copyright in any significant way, you needed special equipment, like a broadcast tower or a printing press. Now, it's becoming increasingly difficult to *not* violate copyright, with computers and high-speed Internet connection ubiquitous. The biggest change, then, is that regular people are subject to copyright, not just large companies as used to be the case. This brings to light the problem of copyright being designed for dealings between companies. Cory Doctorow gives the example of a 12-year-old kid wanting to start a Harry Potter fan site having to call Warner Studios to get permission. It just doesn't work. He continues: "If you need a formal education in culture in order to not break the law, there's a problem with the law".

Many publishers are suffering, trying to cling to their old business models, while those that have embraced the Internet have done quite well. iTunes, for example, has massive sales figures. The industry just has to be creative in finding new ways to do business. They need to evolve to meet the new demands of society. Kennedy reminds us: "We need to remember that *we* own these ideas; we've just given copyright owners a license to use them."
