In his essay "Thinking Like an Engineer", Michael Davis argues that a Code of Ethics is crucial to the Engineering profession. It is central to the philosophy of Engineering that an Engineer must always act with the public's safety as their first priority. A Code of Ethics, when enforced by the profession's regulatory body, provides incentive for Engineers to act in accordance with this philosophy as well as some measure of protection when it conflicts with their employer's wishes. 

Davis begins by illustrating how one Engineer's neglect of his Code of Ethics led directly to the Challenger Disaster and the death of seven astronauts. By discarding his professional opinion -- that it was unsafe to launch the shuttle given current conditions -- and bending to the will of his employer, Robert Lund took a professionally unacceptable risk that ultimately led to loss of life. Had Lund abided by the Code, the shuttle would almost surely have launched successfully, albeit several days later.

A Code of Ethics has a greatly beneficial effect for both Engineering professionals and society as a whole. In a situation where a Code of Ethics is not enforced, an Engineer that refuses to sign off on a propsed design due to ethical concerns could be reprimanded or perhaps even replaced with another Engineer whose moral compass doesn't quite point North. With a Code enforced by a professional regulatory body, all Engineers are expected and required to abide by the Code, making it impossible and in many cases illegal to punish an Engineer for sacrificing financial gain for public safety. 

The benefit of this is twofold: First, an enforced Code of Ethics greatly alleviates the pressure from Engineers to balance the often-competing goals of public safety and financial gain, allowing them to reject any proposal they feel introduces an unacceptable level of risk without fear of repercussion. Second, as a result of this freedom, society reaps many benefits -- notably, increased safety in public infrastructure, transportation, and so on. This can be readily seen when comparing works of Canadian Engineering to, for example, Chinese Engineering. Canada has very strict standards that must be followed in the construction of bridges. These must be followed by Engineers in order to comply with the Code of Ethics laid out by their regulatory body. A bridge in China recently collapsed after it was built from solid concrete with a complete lack of rebar. Admittedly, differences in the economic landscape between these two countries comes into play. Overall, however, people are much safer in a society where professional ethics are the norm.

In conclusion, Davis recommends Engineers go above and beyond the explicit requirements of the Code by actively supporting it and ostracizing others who do not. By doing this, a better environment is created for practicing Engineers and Society as a whole.
